Citation and License
====================

Citing MELT
-----------

If you use MELT in your research, please cite:

BibTeX
~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bibtex

   @software{yong2025,
     author = {Yong, Chengzheng},
     title = {Molecular Emission Line Tool},
     url = {https://github.com/Copland-yz/MELT},
     year = {2025}
   }

Text Format
~~~~~~~~~~~

**APA**:

Yong, C. (2025). *Molecular Emission Line Tool* [Software]. https://github.com/Copland-yz/MELT

Citing Data Sources
-------------------

When using MELT data, please also cite the original data sources as appropriate:

Pearse & Gaydon (1976)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bibtex

   @book{pearse_identification_1976,
     author = {Pearse, Reginald William Blake and Gaydon, Alfred Gordon},
     title = {The identification of molecular spectra},
     edition = {4th ed},
     publisher = {Chapman \& Hall},
     year = {1976},
     isbn = {978-94-009-5760-2}
   }

Borucki et al. (1985)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bibtex

   @article{borucki_spectra_1985,
     author = {Borucki, W. J. and McKenzie, R. L. and McKay, C. P. and Duong, N. D. and Boac, D. S.},
     title = {Spectra of simulated lightning on {Venus}, {Jupiter}, and {Titan}},
     journal = {Icarus},
     volume = {64},
     number = {2},
     pages = {221--232},
     year = {1985},
     issn = {0019-1035},
     doi = {10.1016/0019-1035(85)90087-9}
   }

Clay et al. (1996)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bibtex

   @article{clay_characterization_1996,
     author = {Clay, K. J. and Speakman, S. P. and Amaratunga, G. A. J. and Silva, S. R. P.},
     title = {Characterization of a-{C}:{H}:{N} deposition from {CH4}/{N2} rf plasmas using optical emission spectroscopy},
     journal = {Journal of Applied Physics},
     volume = {79},
     number = {9},
     pages = {7227--7233},
     year = {1996},
     issn = {0021-8979},
     doi = {10.1063/1.361439}
   }

Camacho et al. (2008)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bibtex

   @article{camacho_optical_2008,
     author = {Camacho, J. J. and Díaz, L. and Santos, M. and Reyman, D. and Poyato, J. M. L.},
     title = {Optical emission spectroscopic study of plasma plumes generated by {IR} {CO2} pulsed laser on carbon targets},
     journal = {Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics},
     volume = {41},
     number = {10},
     pages = {105201},
     year = {2008},
     issn = {0022-3727},
     doi = {10.1088/0022-3727/41/10/105201}
   }

Example References Section
--------------------------

.. code-block:: text

   [1] Yong, C. (2025). Molecular Emission Line Tool [Software].
       https://github.com/Copland-yz/MELT

   [2] Pearse, R. W. B., & Gaydon, A. G. (1976). The identification
       of molecular spectra (4th ed.). Chapman & Hall.

   [3] Borucki, W. J., McKenzie, R. L., McKay, C. P., Duong, N. D.,
       & Boac, D. S. (1985). Spectra of simulated lightning on Venus,
       Jupiter, and Titan. Icarus, 64(2), 221-232.

   [4] Clay, K. J., Speakman, S. P., Amaratunga, G. A. J., & Silva,
       S. R. P. (1996). Characterization of a-C:H:N deposition from
       CH4/N2 rf plasmas using optical emission spectroscopy.
       Journal of Applied Physics, 79(9), 7227-7233.

   [5] Camacho, J. J., Díaz, L., Santos, M., Reyman, D., & Poyato,
       J. M. L. (2008). Optical emission spectroscopic study of plasma
       plumes generated by IR CO2 pulsed laser on carbon targets.
       Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics, 41(10), 105201.

Acknowledgments
---------------

If MELT significantly contributed to your work, consider adding to acknowledgments:

   "We thank Chengzheng Yong for developing the Molecular Emission Line Tool (MELT)."

License
-------

MIT License
~~~~~~~~~~~

Copyright (c) 2025 Chengzheng Yong

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Data License
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The spectroscopic data in MELT is compiled from published literature for educational and research purposes, including:

* Pearse & Gaydon (1976) - Molecular spectra identification
* Borucki et al. (1985) - Simulated lightning spectra on Venus, Jupiter, and Titan
* Clay et al. (1996) - C:H:N plasma optical emission spectroscopy
* Camacho et al. (2008) - CO2 laser plasma plume spectroscopy

When publishing results using this data, please cite the original sources as shown above.

Contact
-------

**Chengzheng (Copland) Yong**

* Email: chengzheng@wustl.edu
* GitHub: https://github.com/Copland-yz
* Institution: Washington University in St. Louis
* Website: https://copland-yz.github.io

**Hongkun Qu**

* Email: hongkunqu@126.com
* Institution: Aerospace Information Technology University, China

For questions about:

* **Using MELT**: Check :doc:`usage` guide first
* **Technical issues**: Open issue on GitHub
* **Contributing**: See :doc:`development` guide
* **Citations**: Email for clarification

Contributing
------------

Contributions are welcome! See :doc:`development` for guidelines.

If you publish work using MELT, we'd love to hear about it (optional but appreciated).
