Molecular Emission Line Tool (MELT)
===================================

MELT is an interactive spectroscopic database for molecular emission lines with the function of search and simple visualization. This is the complete User Manual and Developer Guide for the MELT tool. 

🔗 **Live Tool**: https://copland-yz.github.io/MELT/

Overview
--------

Select the spectral range, specify which elements must be included or excluded, then:

* MELT provides the emission line information of the molecules that meet the requirements, including the spectral position, relative intensity, and the electronic transition systems.
* You can download the result in csv or txt, and generate an example spectrum based on the emission lines you choose. 

The tool is designed for researchers in spectroscopy, plasma physics, planetary science, analytical chemistry, spectrometer instrumentation, and astronomy.

Quick Start
-----------

1. Visit the live tool
2. Enter wavelength range and select units (nm, Å, μm, GHz, cm⁻¹)
3. Click elements in the periodic table to filter (once=include, twice=exclude)
4. Click "Search" to find matching lines
5. Select lines and generate spectra if desired
6. Download results

Documentation
-------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   usage
   data
   development
   citation

Cite This Tool
--------------

.. code-block:: bibtex

   @software{yong2025,
     author = {Yong, Chengzheng, Qu, Hongkun},
     title = {Molecular Emission Line Tool},
     url = {https://github.com/Copland-yz/MELT},
     year = {2025}
   }

Data Sources
------------

* Pearse, R. W. B., & Gaydon, A. G. (1976). *The identification of molecular spectra* (4th ed.). Chapman & Hall.

* Borucki, W. J., McKenzie, R. L., McKay, C. P., Duong, N. D., & Boac, D. S. (1985). Spectra of simulated lightning on Venus, Jupiter, and Titan. *Icarus*, 64(2), 221-232. https://doi.org/10.1016/0019-1035(85)90087-9

* Clay, K. J., Speakman, S. P., Amaratunga, G. A. J., & Silva, S. R. P. (1996). Characterization of a-C:H:N deposition from CH4/N2 rf plasmas using optical emission spectroscopy. *Journal of Applied Physics*, 79(9), 7227-7233. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.361439

* Camacho, J. J., Díaz, L., Santos, M., Reyman, D., & Poyato, J. M. L. (2008). Optical emission spectroscopic study of plasma plumes generated by IR CO2 pulsed laser on carbon targets. *Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics*, 41(10), 105201. https://doi.org/10.1088/0022-3727/41/10/105201

* Reyes, P. G., Mendez, E. F., Osorio-Gonzalez, D., Castillo, F., & Martínez, H. (2008). Optical emission spectroscopy of CO2 glow discharge at low pressure. *physica status solidi c*, 5(4), 907-910. https://doi.org/10.1002/pssc.200778306

* Rezaei, F., Abbasi-Firouzjah, M., & Shokri, B. (2014). Investigation of antibacterial and wettability behaviours of plasma-modified PMMA films for application in ophthalmology. *Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics*, 47(8), 085401. https://doi.org/10.1088/0022-3727/47/8/085401

* Kiristi, M., Bozduman, F., Oksuz, A. U., Hala, A., & Oksuz, L. (2015). A Comparison Study of Microwave and Radio Frequency Plasma Polymerized PEDOT Thin Films. *Journal of Macromolecular Science, Part A*, 52(2), 124-129. https://doi.org/10.1080/10601325.2015.980762

* Zhang, S., Zeng, X., Bai, H., Zhang, C., & Shao, T. (2022). Optical emission spectroscopy measurement of plasma parameters in a nanosecond pulsed spark discharge for CO2/CH4 dry reforming. *Spectrochimica Acta Part A: Molecular and Biomolecular Spectroscopy*, 267, 120590. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.saa.2021.120590

Support
-------

* GitHub: https://github.com/Copland-yz/MELT
* Issues: https://github.com/Copland-yz/MELT/issues
* Email: chengzheng@wustl.edu

License
-------

MIT License
